=== PAGE 1 ===
Chiral and bond-ordered phases in a triangular-ladder superconducting-qubit
quantum simulator
Matthew Molinelli, 1,∗ Joshua C. Wang, 1,∗ Jeronimo G. C. Martinez, 1 Sonny
Lowe,1 Andrew Osborne, 1 Rhine Samajdar, 1,† and Andrew A. Houck 1,‡
1Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering,
Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544, USA
Many-body systems with strong interactions often exhibit macroscopic behavior markedly absent
in single-particle or noninteracting limits. Such emergent phenomena are well exemplified in lattice
Hubbard models, where the interplay between interactions, geometric frustration, and magnetic flux
gives rise to rich physics. Superconducting qubits naturally enable analog quantum simulation of
Bose-Hubbard models, while offering tunable parameters, site-resolved control, and rapid experimen-
tal repetition rates. Here, we study a superconducting-qubit device that realizes the Bose-Hubbard
model on a triangular-ladder lattice. By tuning the magnitude and sign of couplings, we engineer a
synthetic magnetic flux to characterize the resulting half-filling ground state for various parameter
regimes. We measure observables analogous to current-current correlators and bond kinetic ener-
gies, finding signatures consistent with chiral superfluids, Meissner superfluids, and bond-ordered
insulators. Our results establish superconducting circuits as a platform for robustly probing quan-
tum phases of matter in frustrated Bose-Hubbard systems, even in strongly correlated and gapless
regimes.
INTRODUCTION
Strongly interacting many-body systems display a
wealth of emergent phenomena that cannot be in-
ferred from the properties of their individual constituents
alone [1]. As an example, consider a system of particles
on a periodic lattice. In the absence of interactions, the
physics is easily understood: Bloch’s theorem can be used
to calculate band structures and eigenstates, and many
properties follow directly from this noninteracting low-
energy spectrum [2]. In contrast, strongly interacting lat-
tice systems exhibit rich emergent behavior wherein in-
teractions result in nontrivial many-body scattering pro-
cesses and collective modes, often stabilizing macroscopic
phases that have no single-particle analog [3]. Since the
intrinsic quantum correlations render these regimes ex-
ponentially difficult to simulate classically [4], quantum
simulation [5] offers valuable opportunities for progress.
The Hubbard model [6], a workhorse of modern con-
densed matter physics, provides a useful paradigm to
probe a variety of such emergent phenomena in strongly
correlated materials [7]. In bosonic systems, described
by the Bose-Hubbard model, the delicate competition
between the lattice tunnelingJand the onsite interac-
tionUyields a phase diagram that depends sensitively
on not onlyJ/Ubut also the fillingρ[8]. At very low
filling, one simply recovers a perturbative connection to
single-particle behavior. On the other hand, at integer
filling, strong interactions lead to Mott-insulating states
while weak interactions favor superfluid order [9]. Be-
tween these limits—at intermediate fillings—additional
∗ These authors contributed equally to this work.
† rhine samajdar@princeton.edu
‡ aahouck@princeton.edu
control parameters, such as geometric frustration and
magnetic fluxes, can drive qualitatively distinct behavior,
especially in reduced dimensionality where the effects of
interactions are maximized [10].
A simple geometry in which these effects of frustration
and magnetic flux can be studied is the triangular-ladder
lattice, composed of two coupled one-dimensional (1D)
chains forming elementary plaquettes (Fig. 1b). In the
Bose-Hubbard model on such a ladder, competing hop-
ping processes on the triangular geometry give rise to ki-
netic frustration [11–14], resulting in phases beyond con-
ventional superfluids and Mott insulators [15–17]. Addi-
tionally, applying a synthetic magnetic field can strongly
modify the lattice properties, leading to phenomena such
as flat band dispersions [18, 19], flux-dependent chiral
transport [20], and the emergence of interaction-driven
phases [21].
Recent advances in analog quantum simulation have
made it possible to implement and probe these Hamil-
tonians in the laboratory [22]. Superconducting trans-
mon [23] platforms are well poised for analog quantum
simulation due to their native implementation of the
Bose-Hubbard model as well as the flexibility of Hamilto-
nian engineering. Transmon devices admit tunable cou-
plings [24], strong interactions, and rapid experimental
repetition rates, enabling the realization and character-
ization of interacting lattice models in regimes that are
difficult to access classically. In the limit of weak anhar-
monicity and near-resonant coupling, a system of cou-
pled transmons is naturally described by an attractive
Bose-Hubbard Hamiltonian [25], where photons play the
role of interacting bosons hopping between lattice sites.
This mapping has enabled much experimental progress
in exploring strongly correlated bosonic systems using
superconducting circuits [26–28].
In this work, we realize an experimental implemen-
tation of the triangular-ladder Bose-Hubbard Hamilto-
arXiv:2603.16993v1  [quant-ph]  17 Mar 2026

=== PAGE 2 ===
2
FIG. 1. Realization of the triangular Bose-Hubbard ladder with transmon qubits.(a)False-color image of the 8-qubit triangular
ladder with transmon qubits shaded in red and transmon couplers shaded in blue. Readout resonators and flux-bias lines are
shaded in white and light blue, respectively.(b)Schematic of the 8-qubit triangular ladder.Jand ˜J∥ denote hoppings along
the diagonals (rungs) and parallel edges (legs), respectively. Each plaquette is additionally threaded with a synthetic magnetic
fluxϕ.(c)Full experimental sequence. The four qubits with the highest energy are excited before the adiabatic ramp onto
resonance. Arbitrary pairs of spatially adjacent qubits are isolated to characterize the state in two-qubit subspaces. Lattice
schematics (bottom) depict the initialized state at half filling, the superfluid state after the ramp, and the isolated state during
the measurement protocol.
nian with a synthetic gauge field on a superconducting-
qubit device. By engineering both the magnitudes and
signs of nearest-neighbor couplings, we implement a tun-
able flux of either 0 orπper plaquette and probe the
ground-state properties within fixed particle-number sec-
tors. We observe a variety of exotic many-body phases,
including states with currents along the legs of the lad-
der (Meissner superfluids), states that spontaneously
break aZ 2 parity symmetry (chiral superfluids), and
states that break translational symmetry (bond-ordered
phases) [29]. Our platform provides site-resolved access
to observables analogous to current-current correlators
and bond operators [30, 31], allowing direct measurement
of order parameters that distinguish these regimes. By
mapping the ground-state response as a function of in-
teraction strength, flux, and filling, and comparing our
measurements to theoretical predictions, we demonstrate
robust signatures of flux-induced chiral order and bond
modulation in this frustrated geometry. These results
thus showcase superconducting lattices as a flexible and
controllable testbed for exploring the interplay of syn-
thetic flux and geometric frustration in strongly inter-
acting bosonic systems.
DEVICE AND MODEL
The sites of our lattice areN= 8 flux-tunable trans-
mon qubits arranged in a quasi-1D triangular-ladder ge-
ometry, as shown in Fig. 1a, with the qubits highlighted
in red in the false-color image. Adjacent qubits are
capacitively coupled along the diagonals of the ladder,
which we refer to as “rungs”, with an average hop-
ping ofJ/2π= 6.1 MHz. Along the top and bot-
tom edges of the ladder, which we call “legs”, qubits
are coupled via a second set of flux-tunable transmons
that act as couplers (shown in blue). Tuning the cou-
pler frequency mediates hopping between the qubits in
the rangeJ ∥/2π= 2.5 MHz to 20.4 MHz. When the
coupler frequency is tuned below the qubit frequency,
the effective hopping becomes negative, accessing values
J∥/2π=−17.3 MHz to−7.0 MHz.
Our qubits are tunable fromω q/2π= 3.5 GHz to
4.4 GHz and are each coupled to a readout resonator with
frequencies betweenω r/2π= 7.1 GHz and 7.6 GHz. In
this work, we initialize and measure the qubits at dis-
tinct frequencies, but operate the lattice at a resonance
frequency of either 3.85 GHz or 4.30 GHz. The transmon
qubits in our system are well approximated as weakly an-
harmonic bosonic oscillators [23]. The couplers are like-

=== PAGE 3 ===
3
wise transmons that mediate excitation transfer between
neighboring qubits through a second-order hopping pro-
cess. The device is therefore described by an interacting
Bose-Hubbard model with the Hamiltonian
H
ℏ =
NX
j=1

ωj nj + Uj
2 nj(nj −1)

−
N−1X
j=1
Jj

a†
jaj+1 +a †
j+1aj

+
N−2X
j=1
˜J∥,j

a†
jaj+2eiϕ +a †
j+2aje−iϕ

.
(1)
Here,a j represents the bosonic annihilation operator on
lattice sitej, andn j ≡a †
jaj is the corresponding number
operator.U j denotes the onsite interaction arising from
the transmon anharmonicity, with average valueU/2π=
−186.1 MHz.J j >0 is the rung hopping between sites
jandj+ 1, while ˜J∥,j >0 is the leg hopping between
sitesjandj+ 2, which relates to the physical coupling
strength asJ ∥,j = ˜J∥,jeiϕ.
Each triangular plaquette (see Fig. 1b) comprises two
rungs with hoppingJand one leg with hopping ˜J∥, so the
phase of the synthetic magnetic field through the loop is
controlled by the sign ofJ ∥. Hence, we define the flux
as 0 forJ ∥ >0 and asπforJ ∥ <0. Note that we have
chosen a gauge in which the Peierls phaseϕis allocated
entirely to the leg hopping. Experimentally, we setϕ= 0
orπby changing the sign ofJ ∥,j as described above.
The Hamiltonian (1) commutes with the total-particle-
number operator, [H,P
j nj] = 0,and therefore possesses
a global U(1) symmetry. As a consequence, one may
choose eigenstates to have definite particle numberN.
For repulsive onsite interactions (U >0), the competi-
tion between kinetic energy and interactions yields the fa-
miliar Mott-insulator versus superfluid phenomenology:
at commensurate (integer) filling and sufficiently large
U/J, the ground state is a gapped Mott insulator with
suppressed number fluctuations, while forJ≫Uthe
kinetic term dominates and the system develops long-
range phase coherence (i.e., superfluid order) [8]. This
is diagnosed by off-diagonal long-range order (ODLRO)
of the one-body density matrix, which corresponds to a
nonvanishing asymptotic value of⟨a †
i aj⟩as|i−j| → ∞.
The attractive case (U <0) is qualitatively different.
A strong onsite attraction minimizes energy by bunching
all particles on a single site, so the natural Fock states at
large|U|are localized states,|N j⟩ ∝(ˆa†
j)N |0⟩. Crucially,
the translationally invariant ground state, which is the
symmetric superposition in this fixed-number sector, has
vanishing off-diagonal one-body correlations between dis-
tinct sites,⟨a †
i aj⟩= 0 fori̸=j, and therefore, no ODLRO.
In other words, the exact ground state exhibits no global
phase coherence and is not a superfluid.
In order to probe superfluid physics with our system,
we instead consider the ground state of the negative
Hamiltonian. Negating the Hamiltonian implements the
transformation
−H(ϕ, U) =H(ϕ+π,−U).(2)
The plaquette phase is shifted byπbecause all couplings
are negated and each plaquette contains an odd num-
ber of edges. To access the ground state of therepulsive
Hamiltonian atπflux, we first prepare the highest excited
state of theattractiveHamiltonian at 0 flux and then
exploit the sign-flip mapping of Eq. (2). Since we can
control the sign ofJ ∥, this procedure allows a negative-
temperature state of the experimentally realized attrac-
tive Bose-Hubbard model to faithfully represent the low-
energy physics of the repulsive model [32], a strategy we
employ throughout this work.
RESUL TS
Our experiments focus on the half-filling sector corre-
sponding to four excitations in an eight-site ladder. At
this filling, the lattice is neither dilute nor fully occu-
pied, which ensures that kinetic and interaction energies
compete most strongly.
The experimental procedure consists of two stages:
state preparation and measurement, shown in Fig. 1c.
State preparation involves exciting four out of the eight
qubits and ramping all qubits onto resonance to prepare
the half-filling ground state of the repulsive Hamiltonian.
Next, we let the system evolve under a specific Hamilto-
nian, which implements a calibrated unitary operation,
to rotate the desired observables to the computational
basis before performing simultaneous projective readout
on all eight qubits to collect bitstring outcomes. Re-
peated runs then yield the expectation values and corre-
lation functions used to construct the order parameters
reported below.
In order to probe ODLRO, we characterize the pre-
pared eigenstate by measuring pairwise particle-number
current operators along rungs of the lattice. For a rung
connecting sitesjandj+ 1, the Hermitian current oper-
ator is given by
Jj = iJj

a†
jaj+1 −a †
j+1aj

,(3)
so that its expectation value is directly related to the
nearest-neighbor coherences,⟨J j ⟩= 2J j Im⟨a†
jaj+1⟩.A
nonzero⟨J j⟩therefore signals finite short-range phase co-
herence (a necessary condition for ODLRO), whereas in-
sulating states with suppressed off-diagonal correlations
have⟨J j⟩ ≈0.
As the current operator generates population exchange
between neighboring sites, its expectation value can
be inferred from the population imbalance after con-
trolled time evolution. To that end, we first time-evolve
each pair of qubits individually under the Hamiltonian

=== PAGE 4 ===
4
FIG. 2. Current-current correlations between rungs of the
triangular ladder.(a)Schematic of the lattice showing pairs
of qubits undergoing beamsplitter rotation in order to per-
form current measurement. The arrows show the measured
correlations with the rung shaded in red.(b)Bloch-sphere
representation of the beamsplitter rotation from the current
eigenstates|±j⟩to the readout basis.(c)Current measure-
ment trace between qubits 1 and 2 as the beamsplitter inter-
action time is varied. The current value is extracted at the
beamsplitter timet BS =π/4Jshown by the dashed line. The
solid line is a sinusoidal fit to the population oscillations.(d)
Same as in (c) but for qubits 7 and 8.(e). Current correla-
tion between qubit pairs 1-2 and 7-8. Although the current
on both rungs vanishes at the beamsplitter time, the current
correlation has a nonzero value.
HBS,j =ℏJ j (a†
jaj+1 +a †
j+1aj) for a “beamsplitter” time
tBS =π/4Jand estimate the currentJ j at timet= 0
by [30]
Jj (0)≈J j

nj(tBS)−n j+1(tBS)

.(4)
This relation becomes exact in the hard-core boson limit,
where the system reduces to the frustrated spin-1/2
quantum XX model [33–35].
Viewing the two-qubit system in the single-particle
manifold{|01⟩,|10⟩}as shown in Fig. 2a, we see that
Jj andH BS act as effectiveσ y andσ x operations, re-
spectively, on this degree of freedom. After applying an
effectiveσ x to rotate the current basis to the measure-
ment basis, we quickly detune all qubits to freeze dynam-
ics and perform readout.
Upon quasiadiabatically preparing the ground state of
the triangular ladder, we find that the rung currents
vanish everywhere, as evidenced by the population dif-
ferences vanishing at the beamsplitter time. Since the
Hamiltonian is symmetric under time-reversal, for every
state with current⟨J j⟩flowing from qubitsjtoj+ 1,
there is a degenerate state with current−⟨J j⟩flowing in
the opposite direction. Without breaking time-reversal
symmetry, the two current outcomes are equally likely, so
after many iterations, the currents average to zero. Im-
portantly however, the current-current correlation func-
tion,
G(i, j) =⟨J iJj⟩ − ⟨Ji⟩⟨Jj⟩,(5)
which can be further expanded into qubit-qubit popula-
tion correlations using Eq. (4), can still be nonzero.
Figure 2 demonstrates the measurement of a nonzero
current correlation between distant rungs, despite mea-
suring zero average current, forJ ∥/J=−1. First, we
conduct the experimental procedure and read out a sin-
gle pair of qubits, for example, qubits 1 and 2 in Fig. 2a.
Since time evolution underH BS implements an effec-
tive e −iJtσ x, it is necessary to calibratet BS such that
e−itBSHBS/ℏ =
√
iSWAP, as seen in Fig. 2b,d. We elab-
orate further on the subtleties in calibrating the beam-
splitter time from qubit swaps in the Supplemental Infor-
mation (SI). The dashed lines in Figs. 2c,d indicate the
fitted beamsplitter evolution time.
Having performed this calibration, we measure the cor-
relations of currents between different pairs of qubits.
For instance, the correlation between qubit pairs (1,2)
and (7,8) is shown in Fig. 2e: while the dashed line cor-
responds to zero current, we extract a nonzero current
correlation. However, if rungsiandjshare a qubit,
(JiJj)† ̸=J iJj, and hence⟨J iJj⟩is not measurable.
There are six such pairs of rungs which we exclude, leav-
ing
 7
2

−6 = 15 combinations of rungs for which we
repeat the above experiment.
CHIRAL CURRENT CORRELA TIONS
Using this calibrated measurement procedure, we can
now extractglobalinformation on a many-body state of
the triangular lattice, including the spatial texture of cor-
relations. The color plots in Figs. 3b,c display the rung
correlation matrix for each ratioJ ∥/J. To emphasize the
structure of these correlations, the same data are replot-
ted in Figs. 3d,e as a function of the distance between
the two rungs.
In the gapless quasi-1D superfluid regime, current cor-
relations are generically expected to decay as a power
law with distance [36]. Accordingly, we indeed observe
that the correlations generally decrease as the rung sep-
aration grows, for all measurement points. However, the
plots in Figs. 3d,e show a slight increase in the most dis-
tant correlations relative to the monotonic trend. We at-
tribute this behavior to finite-size and edge effects, since
the largest separation corresponds to both rungs being
on the boundary. Supporting this interpretation, correla-
tions between rungs closer to the center of the lattice are
systematically smaller at comparable separations. This
position dependence manifests as a spread in the correla-
tion values for a given separation in Figs. 3d,e, where we

=== PAGE 5 ===
5
a
b c
d e
FIG. 3. Chiral and Meissner superfluids on the 8-qubit triangle ladder.(a)Total chiral-current order parameter for various
values ofJ ∥/J. Negative (positive) ratios correspond to aπ-flux (0-flux) synthetic magnetic field. The values ofJ ∥/Jfor each
plot are (from left to right)−3.56,−2.02,−1.22, 0.98, 1.96, and 3.53.(b)Current correlation matrices for theπ-flux coupling
ratios. Rungjlinks qubits (j, j+ 1). Experimental data are shown on the lower left and simulation on the upper right of the
correlation matrix.(c)Current correlation matrices for the 0-flux coupling ratios.(d)The same current correlations as in
part (b) plotted against distance between the two rungs for theπ-flux coupling ratios. The inset depicts a schematic of the
rung currents that produce the positive current-current correlations observed here.(e)The same current correlations as in
part (c) plotted against distance between the two rungs for the 0-flux coupling ratios. The inset depicts a schematic of the
rung currents that produce the anticorrelated current-current correlations observed here.
also plot the average correlation for each distance to com-
pare with simulations. Both the decay of correlations and
the edge effects are captured in these numerics, which we
discuss further in the SI.
We first examine the correlations with an applied syn-
thetic magnetic field corresponding toπflux. As shown
by the plots in Fig. 3b,d, whenJ ∥/J <0, the current cor-
relations are all positive. Given our sign convention in
the definitions of currents, a current flowing from qubit
1 to qubit 2 is positively correlated with a current flow-
ing from qubit 3 to qubit 4. This pattern is consistent
with long-range chiral current order throughout the lat-
tice [37, 38], since the currents flow with the same hand-
edness around each similarly oriented plaquette.
The currents themselves average to zero across ex-
perimental iterations, implying that theπ-flux ground
state is a superposition of two superfluids with equal am-
plitude but opposite chirality, which are time-reversed
copies of each other. Measuring a local current operator
on this extended ground state projects the system into
one of the two states with well-defined chiral currents,
and this spontaneously breaks a discreteZ 2 parity sym-
metry. The nonzero chiral current-current correlations
are characteristic of the chiral superfluid (CSF) phase,
in which we have finite currents on the rungs that al-
ternate sign from rung to rung (giving opposite circula-
tions on adjacent plaquettes), together with leg currents
that flow coherently along each leg. These linked pat-
terns of rung and leg currents correspond to circulating
flow around elementary plaquettes and distinguish the
CSF from nonchiral (for example Meissner-like or bond-
ordered) phases [29, 36].
In contrast to theπ-flux case discussed above, we no-
tice a stark difference in the correlations in the absence
of a synthetic magnetic field. In this case, we no longer
expect states to have chiral properties and the plots in
Fig. 3c,e forJ ∥/J >0 indeed demonstrate the break-
down of the chiral order. In addition to the smaller mag-
nitude, the correlations also tend to alternate sign with
increasing distance. In this regime, rungs exhibit anti-
correlated currents, indicating the absence of a uniform
chirality. This is characteristic of a Meissner superfluid
(MSF) [39, 40], which ideally has no currents along the
rungs and no chirality around plaquettes; the nonzero
correlations we measure here arise from having a finite
system.
We can define the chiral-current order parameter as
the sum over distance-averaged correlations:
C=
X
d
1
N−d
X
j
[G(j, j+d)].(6)
We reportCfor each coupling ratio along the axis in
Fig. 3a. The order parameter measurement reveals that
Cdiffers qualitatively between theπ-flux and 0-flux cases:
the measured values are orders of magnitude smaller in
the latter case than the former, which is consistent with
our expectation thatCshould vanish for a MSF but re-
main nonzero for a CSF.

=== PAGE 6 ===
6
a b
FIG. 4. Bond order insulator in the 8-qubit triangle ladder.(a)Schematic of the bond kinetic energy ordering on the lattice.
(b)Pulse diagram depicting the bond kinetic energy measurement. Here, one qubit acquires a phase relative to the other in
order to rotate the kinetic energy (ˆx) axis to the current (ˆy) axis, before undergoing the beamsplitter interaction to rotate to
the measurement (ˆz) axis.(c)Total bond order parameter for various values ofJ ∥/J: from left to right,−3.56,−2.02,−1.22,
0.98, 2.04, and 2.85.(d)Bond kinetic energies of each rung for theπ-flux coupling ratios. Experimental data (simulation) is
shown on the upper (lower) row of the color plots. The dashed lines indicate the alternating trend in bond kinetic energies
seen numerically.(e)Bond kinetic energy of each rung for the 0-flux coupling ratios. Here, the experimental (red circles)
and numerical (dashed lines) results highlight that the bond kinetic energies maintain a uniform sign throughout, without the
alternation seen previously.
BOND ORDER INSULA TOR
While current correlations provide a direct probe of
chiral transport and distinguish key features between
the 0- andπ-flux regimes, more generally, the com-
plex nearest-neighbor correlator⟨a †
jaj+1⟩contains both
imaginary and real components, which encode distinct
physical information. In contrast to the imaginary part
discussed above (which is proportional to the particle-
number current), the real part,O j = 2 Re[⟨a†
jaj+1⟩],cor-
responds to the expectation value of the kinetic en-
ergy operator associated with tunneling on a given link
(j, j+1). This quantity characterizes the degree to which
particles are coherently delocalized across neighboring
sites and thus provides a natural probe of bond-energy
ordering in the many-body ground state.
Experimentally, we accessO j using a modified version
of the beamsplitter measurement used for current detec-
tion, as seen in Fig. 4b. Prior to the beamsplitter pulse,
we allow the system to evolve under an idling Hamil-
tonianH idle,j =ℏ∆ j
 
a†
jaj −a †
j+1aj+1

implemented by
detuning the two qubits forming the bond such that
|∆j| ≫J. Choosing an evolution timet idle =π/4∆ j
rotates the ˆx-axis to ˆyon the Bloch sphere during idling,
and then ˆyto ˆzduring the beamsplitter. This, as before,
effectively maps the real part of⟨a †
jaj+1⟩onto a popula-
tion imbalance in the computational basis.
Figure 4 shows the measured bond kinetic energiesO j
for each coupling ratio. As|J ∥/J|increases, the magni-
tude of the bond energies on the rungs decreases, since
the bosons preferentially delocalize along the legs when
leg hopping dominates. In the presence of aπsynthetic
flux (Fig. 4d), however, the rung bond energies exhibit a
qualitatively distinct pattern: their signs alternate from
rung to rung. Contrarily, in the zero-flux case (Fig. 4e)
the bond energies maintain a uniform sign across the lad-
der.
To quantify this behavior, we define the bond order
parameter [29]
OBO =
N−1X
j
(−1)j

⟨a†
jaj+1⟩+⟨a †
j+1aj⟩

,(7)
which measures the staggered component of the bond
kinetic energy. A nonzero value ofO BO indicates that

=== PAGE 7 ===
7
the kinetic energy alternates between neighboring bonds,
breaking lattice translational symmetry. In our measure-
ments, the order parameter is largest in theπ-flux con-
figuration nearJ ∥/J≈ −1, where the rung bond energies
have large magnitudes and alternate in sign. As|J ∥ / J|
increases further, the magnitude ofO BO decreases be-
cause the rung bond energies themselves become small,
whereas in the absence of a synthetic field, the order pa-
rameter remains suppressed because the bonds no longer
alternate.
This staggered pattern of bond energies is the defin-
ing signature of the bond order insulator (BOI) phase
predicted for frustrated bosonic ladders in a magnetic
field [29]. This bond ordering arises from the combination
of strong interactions, geometric frustration, and flux,
which conspire to favor a ground state with modulated
kinetic energy density rather than uniform superfluid co-
herence. Intuitively, repulsive onsite interactions sup-
press macroscopic occupation of a single site and penalize
delocalization patterns that place large density fluctua-
tions on individual sites. Faced with a frustrated kinetic
term that weakens the homogeneous delocalization ad-
vantage, the interacting system can instead optimize its
energy by reorganizing the pattern of tunneling: concen-
trating kinetic energy density on a subset of bonds while
suppressing it on others. The result is a spatially modu-
lated expectation value of the bond kinetic operator (Oj),
manifesting as alternating strong and weak bonds.
In the many-body phase diagram, the gapped BOI lies
next to the gapless chiral superfluid regime in parameter
space [29]. This proximity implies an enhanced suscep-
tibility toward bond ordering as|J ∥/J|is tuned towards
the critical point. Since our device operates near this
phase boundary (albeit on the CSF side) and because
the ideally sharp phase transition is dulled by the finite
size of our device, we measure a nonzeroO BO signal,
reflecting the incipient instability towards bond ordering
and the phase transition between these competing many-
body states.
DISCUSSION AND OUTLOOK
In these experiments, we study a superconducting-
qubit device that realizes an interacting Bose-Hubbard
model—a paradigmatic model for understanding strongly
correlated quantum matter—on a triangular ladder at
half filling. Exploiting the tunability of transmon cou-
plers, we implement a synthetic magnetic flux of 0 or
πper plaquette and tune the ratio between rung and
leg tunneling amplitudes to explore a rich ground-state
structure predicted for frustrated bosonic ladders [29].
We prepare and characterize multiple many-body states,
including chiral superfluids, which host staggered loop
currents that spontaneously break time-reversal symme-
try, and Meissner superfluids with vanishing rung cur-
rents. These phases are distinguished by measuring link-
current operators and correlators thereof, which we ac-
cess experimentally through a calibrated mapping from
qubit population dynamics to the expectation values of
currents. Using the same measurement framework, we
also identify signatures of incipient bond ordering, re-
flected in a pattern of staggered bond kinetic energies
along the rungs of the ladder.
Chiral superfluids and related current-carrying phases
have been widely proposed [41] and, more recently, ex-
perimentally explored [42] in quantum simulators based
on ultracold atoms. In the context of such atomic sys-
tems, most studies on the triangular Bose-Hubbard lad-
der Hamiltonian have focused on unit filling [38, 43, 44]
or low densities [45]. Superconducting circuits provide
a complementary approach with several practical advan-
tages. In particular, our setup of transmon qubits fa-
cilitates deterministic high-fidelity preparation of many-
body states with a fixed number of excitations, whereas
cold-atom experiments typically rely on statistical load-
ing of lattice sites. This capability enables us to initialize
arbitrary product states in a chosen particle-number sec-
tor and subsequently ramp onto the target Hamiltonian.
In addition, superconducting platforms offer rapid exper-
imental repetition rates and precise control over individ-
ual couplings and site parameters, allowing Hamiltonian
parameters to be engineered both in device design and
through in situ tuning. These features provide a versa-
tile environment for exploring frustrated Bose-Hubbard
physics with direct microscopic control that may be more
challenging to achieve in optical lattices.
More broadly, the techniques demonstrated here pro-
vide a useful toolset for the analog quantum simula-
tion of lattice boson models and their strongly corre-
lated phases. Extending these experiments to wider pa-
rameter ranges is a natural next step for systematically
exploring the full phase diagram, including the critical
regimes separating Meissner and chiral superfluids, and
bond-ordered phases. This opens the door to addressing
important theoretical questions on quantum criticality:
measuring critical exponents and related universal prop-
erties would provide direct experimental tests of field-
theoretic and numerical predictions for quantum phase
transitions in frustrated bosonic systems [10, 36]. Go-
ing beyond equilibrium ground states, our platform fur-
ther provides a window into the fundamentally nonequi-
librium quantum dynamics of state preparation. For
example, the controlled parameter ramps through the
Mott-insulator–superfluid quantum phase transition of-
fer a natural testbed to probe the dynamical emergence
of coherence and superfluid order [46]. It would also be
interesting to understand the dynamical aspects ofZ 2
symmetry breaking and domain formation in chiral sec-
tors [47, 48]. Moreover, the control and tunability af-
forded by superconducting circuits makes the system well
suited for extracting more refined metrics, such as mul-
tipartite entanglement [49], and for investigating finite-
temperature properties of interacting lattice models [50],
regimes that remain challenging to access with classical
numerical methods.

=== PAGE 8 ===
8
On the experimental front, one can envision several im-
provements to further enhance the versatility of our plat-
form. At present, qubit frequencies can be tuned rapidly
during an experimental sequence, whereas coupler pa-
rameters are adjusted more slowly between runs. Ex-
panding control-hardware capabilities such that couplers
can be tuned dynamically on experimental timescales
could permit the design of more flexible ramp proto-
cols and enable studies of adiabatic state preparation
and thermalization dynamics [28]. Increasing the acces-
sible range of coupler tunability—particularly the ability
to tune the effective coupling through zero—would also
simplify state initialization and improve readout fidelity
for neighboring qubits. Such tunability would provide
insights at intermediate coupling ratios between the chi-
ral and Meissner regimes, where phase transitions are
expected, as well as deeper access to the parameter re-
gion associated with bond-ordered phases. Finally, Flo-
quet modulation of qubit or coupler parameters could be
used to engineer synthetic gauge fields beyond the static
0- andπ-flux configurations studied here [20]. Access
to continuously tunable flux would allow explicit break-
ing of time-reversal symmetry and thus, shed new light
on additional phases, including biased chiral superfluids
with nonzero average current [29].
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
We thank Faranak Bahrami, R. N. Bhatt, Eugene
Demler, Lev Krayzman, and Basil Smitham for useful
discussions, and Sho Uemura for assistance with QICK
software development. We acknowledge support primar-
ily from the NSF Quantum Leap Challenge Institute for
Robust Quantum Simulation 2120757, with additional
support for theoretical work from U.S. Department of
Energy, Office of Science, National Quantum Information
Science Research Centers, Co-design Center for Quantum
Advantage (C2QA) under Contract No. DESC0012704.
R.S. was partially supported by the Princeton Quantum
Initiative Fellowship. This research made use of the Mi-
cro and Nano Fabrication Center at Princeton University.
Princeton University Professor Andrew Houck is also
a consultant for Quantum Circuits Incorporated (QCI).
Due to his income from QCI, Princeton University has
a management plan in place to mitigate a potential con-
flict of interest that could affect the design, conduct and
reporting of this research.
[1] P. W. Anderson, More Is Different: Broken symmetry
and the nature of the hierarchical structure of science,
Science177, 393 (1972).
[2] C. Kittel,Introduction to Solid State Physics, 8th ed.
(John Wiley & Sons, New York, NY, 2004).
[3] S. Sachdev,Quantum Phases of Matter(Cambridge Uni-
versity Press, 2023).
[4] S. Lloyd, Universal Quantum Simulators, Science273,
1073 (1996).
[5] R. P. Feynman, Simulating Physics with Computers, Int.
J. Theor. Phys.21, 467 (1982).
[6] J. Hubbard, Electron correlations in narrow energy
bands, Proc. R. Soc. Lond. A276, 238 (1963).
[7] D. P. Arovas, E. Berg, S. A. Kivelson, and S. Raghu, The
Hubbard model, Annu. Rev. Condens. Matter Phys.13,
239 (2022).
[8] S. Sachdev,Quantum Phase Transitions, 2nd ed. (Cam-
bridge University Press, 2011).
[9] M. Capello, F. Becca, M. Fabrizio, and S. Sorella, Su-
perfluid to Mott-Insulator Transition in Bose-Hubbard
Models, Phys. Rev. Lett.99, 056402 (2007).
[10] T. Giamarchi,Quantum physics in one dimension, Vol.
121 (Clarendon Press, Oxford, 2003).
[11] J. O. Haerter and B. S. Shastry, Kinetic Antiferromag-
netism in the Triangular Lattice, Phys. Rev. Lett.95,
087202 (2005).
[12] I. Morera, M. Kan´ asz-Nagy, T. Smolenski, L. Ciorciaro,
A. Imamo˘ glu, and E. Demler, High-temperature kinetic
magnetism in triangular lattices, Phys. Rev. Res.5,
L022048 (2023).
[13] R. Samajdar and R. N. Bhatt, Nagaoka ferromagnetism
in doped Hubbard models in optical lattices, Phys. Rev.
A110, L021303 (2024).
[14] R. Samajdar and R. N. Bhatt, Polaronic mechanism of
Nagaoka ferromagnetism in Hubbard models, Phys. Rev.
B109, 235128 (2024).
[15] M. Xu, L. H. Kendrick, A. Kale,et al., Frustration- and
doping-induced magnetism in a Fermi–Hubbard simula-
tor, Nature620, 971 (2023).
[16] M. L. Prichard, B. M. Spar, I. Morera,et al., Directly
imaging spin polarons in a kinetically frustrated Hubbard
system, Nature629, 323 (2024).
[17] Y. Li, H. Du, Y. Wang, and et al., Observation of frus-
trated chiral dynamics in an interacting triangular flux
ladder, Nat. Commun.14, 7560 (2023).
[18] J. G. Martinez, C. S. Chiu, B. M. Smitham, and A. A.
Houck, Flat-band localization and interaction-induced
delocalization of photons, Sci. Adv.9, eadj7195 (2023).
[19] I. T. Rosen, S. Muschinske, C. N. Barrett, D. A. Rower,
R. Das, D. K. Kim, B. M. Niedzielski, M. Schuldt, K. Ser-
niak, M. E. Schwartz, J. L. Yoder, J. A. Grover, and
W. D. Oliver, Flat-Band (De)localization Emulated with
a Superconducting Qubit Array, Phys. Rev. X15, 021091
(2025).
[20] P. Roushan, C. Neill, A. Megrant,et al., Chiral ground-
state currents of interacting photons in a synthetic mag-
netic field, Nat. Phys.13, 146 (2017).
[21] A. Impertro, S. Huh, S. Karch,et al., Strongly interacting
Meissner phases in large bosonic flux ladders, Nat. Phys.
21, 895 (2025).
[22] E. Altmanet al., Quantum Simulators: Architectures
and Opportunities, PRX Quantum2, 017003 (2021).
[23] J. Koch, T. M. Yu, J. Gambetta, A. A. Houck, D. I.
Schuster, J. Majer, A. Blais, M. H. Devoret, S. M. Girvin,

=== PAGE 9 ===
9
and R. J. Schoelkopf, Charge-insensitive qubit design de-
rived from the Cooper pair box, Phys. Rev. A76, 042319
(2007).
[24] F. Yan, P. Krantz, Y. Sung, M. Kjaergaard, D. L. Camp-
bell, T. P. Orlando, S. Gustavsson, and W. D. Oliver,
Tunable coupling scheme for implementing high-fidelity
two-qubit gates, Phys. Rev. Appl.10, 054062 (2018).
[25] R. Ma, B. Saxberg, C. Owens, and et al., A dissipa-
tively stabilized Mott insulator of photons, Nature566,
51 (2019).
[26] C. Wang, F.-M. Liu, M.-C. Chen, H. Chen, X.-H. Zhao,
C. Ying, Z.-X. Shang, J.-W. Wang, Y.-H. Huo, C.-Z.
Peng, X. Zhu, C.-Y. Lu, and J.-W. Pan, Realization of
fractional quantum Hall state with interacting photons,
Science384, 579 (2024).
[27] P. Roushan, C. Neill, J. Tangpanitanon, V. M. Bastidas,
A. Megrant, R. Barends, Y. Chen, Z. Chen, B. Chiaro,
A. Dunsworth, A. Fowler, B. Foxen, M. Giustina, E. Jef-
frey, J. Kelly, E. Lucero, J. Mutus, M. Neeley, C. Quin-
tana, D. Sank, A. Vainsencher, J. Wenner, T. White,
H. Neven, D. G. Angelakis, and J. Martinis, Spectro-
scopic signatures of localization with interacting photons
in superconducting qubits, Science358, 1175 (2017).
[28] T. I. Andersen, N. Astrakhantsev, A. H. Karamlou,et al.,
Thermalization and criticality on an analogue–digital
quantum simulator, Nature638, 79 (2025).
[29] C.-M. Halati and T. Giamarchi, Bose-hubbard triangu-
lar ladder in an artificial gauge field, Phys. Rev. Res.5,
013126 (2023).
[30] B. Du, R. Suresh, S. L´ opez, J. Cadiente, and R. Ma,
Probing site-resolved current in strongly interacting su-
perconducting circuit lattices, Phys. Rev. Lett.133,
060601 (2024).
[31] D. K. Mark, H.-Y. Hu, J. Kwan, C. Kokail, S. Choi,
and S. F. Yelin, Efficiently measuringd-wave pairing and
beyond in quantum gas microscopes, Phys. Rev. Lett.
135, 123402 (2025).
[32] C. Chen, G. Bornet, M. Bintz, G. Emperauger,
L. Leclerc, V. S. Liu, P. Scholl, D. Barredo, J. Hauschild,
S. Chatterjee, M. Schuler, A. M. L¨ auchli, M. P. Zale-
tel, T. Lahaye, N. Y. Yao, and A. Browaeys, Continuous
symmetry breaking in a two-dimensional Rydberg array,
Nature616, 691–695 (2023).
[33] M. Sato, S. Furukawa, S. Onoda, and A. Furusaki, Com-
peting phases in spin-1/2J 1-J2 chain with easy-plane
anisotropy, Mod. Phys. Lett. B25, 901 (2011).
[34] T. Mishra, R. V. Pai, S. Mukerjee, and A. Paramekanti,
Quantum phases and phase transitions of frustrated
hard-core bosons on a triangular ladder, Phys. Rev. B
87, 174504 (2013).
[35] T. Mishra, R. V. Pai, and S. Mukerjee, Supersolid in a
one-dimensional model of hard-core bosons, Phys. Rev.
A89, 013615 (2014).
[36] A. Dhar, T. Mishra, M. Maji, R. V. Pai, S. Mukerjee, and
A. Paramekanti, Chiral Mott insulator with staggered
loop currents in the fully frustrated Bose-Hubbard model,
Phys. Rev. B87, 174501 (2013).
[37] Y. Nishiyama, Finite-size-scaling analyses of the chiral
ordert in the josephson-junction ladder with half a flux
quantum per plaquette, Eur. Phys. J. B17, 295 (2000).
[38] S. Greschner, L. Santos, and T. Vekua, Ultracold bosons
in zig-zag optical lattices, Phys. Rev. A87, 033609
(2013).
[39] E. Orignac and T. Giamarchi, Meissner effect in a bosonic
ladder, Phys. Rev. B64, 144515 (2001).
[40] M.-C. Cha and J.-G. Shin, Two peaks in the momen-
tum distribution of bosons in a weakly frustrated two-leg
optical ladder, Phys. Rev. A83, 055602 (2011).
[41] L. Barbiero, J. Cabedo, M. Lewenstein, L. Tarruell, and
A. Celi, Frustrated magnets without geometrical frustra-
tion in bosonic flux ladders, Phys. Rev. Res.5, L042008
(2023).
[42] Y. Li, H. Du, Y. Wang, J. Liang, L. Xiao, W. Yi, J. Ma,
and S. Jia, Observation of frustrated chiral dynamics in
an interacting triangular flux ladder, Nat. Commun.14,
7560 (2023).
[43] M. P. Zaletel, S. A. Parameswaran, A. R¨ uegg, and E. Alt-
man, Chiral bosonic Mott insulator on the frustrated tri-
angular lattice, Phys. Rev. B89, 155142 (2014).
[44] C. Romen and A. M. L¨ auchli, Chiral Mott insulators
in frustrated Bose-Hubbard models on ladders and two-
dimensional lattices: A combined perturbative and den-
sity matrix renormalization group study, Phys. Rev. B
98, 054519 (2018).
[45] S. Greschner and T. Mishra, Interacting bosons in gen-
eralized zigzag and railroad-trestle models, Phys. Rev. B
100, 144405 (2019).
[46] S. Braun, M. Friesdorf, S. S. Hodgman, M. Schreiber,
J. P. Ronzheimer, A. Riera, M. Del Rey, I. Bloch,
J. Eisert, and U. Schneider, Emergence of coherence and
the dynamics of quantum phase transitions, Proc. Natl.
Acad. Sci. U.S.A.112, 3641 (2015).
[47] K. Shimizu, Y. Kuno, T. Hirano, and I. Ichinose, Dynam-
ics of a quantum phase transition in the Bose-Hubbard
model: Kibble-Zurek mechanism and beyond, Phys. Rev.
A97, 033626 (2018).
[48] R. Samajdar and D. A. Huse, Quantum and classical
coarsening and their interplay with the Kibble-Zurek
mechanism, (2024), arXiv:2401.15144 [quant-ph].
[49] S. Singha Roy, L. Carl, and P. Hauke, Genuine multi-
partite entanglement in a one-dimensional Bose-Hubbard
model with frustrated hopping, Phys. Rev. B106, 195158
(2022).
[50] M. Buser, F. Heidrich-Meisner, and U. Schollw¨ ock,
Finite-temperature properties of interacting bosons on
a two-leg flux ladder, Phys. Rev. A99, 053601 (2019).
[51] F. Bahrami, M. P. Bland, N. Shumiya, R. D. Chang,
E. Hedrick, R. A. McLellan, K. D. Crowley, A. Dutta,
L. Bishop-Van Horn, Y. Iguchi, A. K. Anbalagan,
G. Cheng, C. Yang, N. Yao, A. L. Walter, A. M. Bar-
bour, S. Gopalakrishnan, R. J. Cava, A. A. Houck, and
N. P. de Leon, Vortex motion induced losses in tantalum
resonators, Phys. Rev. B113, 054505 (2026).
[52] G. J. Dolan, Offset masks for lift-off photoprocessing,
Appl. Phys. Lett.31, 337 (1977).
[53] M. P. Bland, F. Bahrami, J. G. C. Martinez, P. H. Preste-
gaard, B. M. Smitham, A. Joshi, E. Hedrick, S. Kumar,
A. Yang, A. C. Pakpour-Tabrizi, A. Jindal, R. D. Chang,
G. Cheng, N. Yao, R. J. Cava, N. P. de Leon, and A. A.
Houck, Millisecond lifetimes and coherence times in 2D
transmon qubits, Nature647, 343 (2025).
[54] Z. Chen, A. Megrant, J. Kelly, R. Barends, J. Bochmann,
Y. Chen, B. Chiaro, A. Dunsworth, E. Jeffrey, J. Y. Mu-
tus, P. J. J. O’Malley, C. Neill, P. Roushan, D. Sank,
A. Vainsencher, J. Wenner, T. C. White, A. N. Cleland,
and J. M. Martinis, Fabrication and characterization of
aluminum airbridges for superconducting microwave cir-
cuits, Appl. Phys. Lett.104, 052602 (2014).

=== PAGE 10 ===
10
[55] L. Stefanazzi, K. Treptow, N. Wilcer, C. Stoughton,
C. Bradford, S. Uemura, S. Zorzetti, S. Montella, G. Can-
celo, S. Sussman, A. Houck, S. Saxena, H. Arnaldi,
A. Agrawal, H. Zhang, C. Ding, and D. I. Schuster, The
QICK (Quantum Instrumentation Control Kit): Read-
out and control for qubits and detectors, Rev. Sci. In-
strum.93, 044709 (2022).
METHODS
Device fabrication
The eight-qubit device in this work consists of a
200 nm-thick layer of tantalum deposited on ac-axis
HEMEX sapphire substrate from Crystal Systems before
undergoing the cleaning process outlined in Ref. [51]. Af-
terwards, the base layer pattern is defined with optical
lithography and etched with a chlorine-based dry etch.
Josephson junctions are patterned with electron-beam
lithography to create a suspended resist bridge [52]. The
Al-AlOx-Al layers are deposited using using double-angle
electron-beam evaporation in a custom UHV-chamber
Plassys [53]. The first layer is 20 nm thick and the AlO x
is grown for 40 minutes in pure oxygen at 50 mbar. The
second layer is 70 nm thick. Afterwards, aluminum air-
bridges are patterned with two optical lithography steps
following the process in Ref. [54], and deposited by simi-
lar means in a Plassys MEB550S system. Airbridges are
use to short ground planes on opposite sides of copla-
nar waveguides as well as to connect qubit and coupler
flux lines on opposite sides of the transmission line. Alu-
minum wirebonds are used to connect signal lines to bond
pads on flux lines and the transmission line. The device
is mounted in the Scalinq LINQER package.
Wiring and setup
Devices were measured in a Bluefors dilution refrigera-
tor with a base temperature of 10 mK. Time-domain con-
trol and measurements were performed using the Xilinx
RFSoC ZCU216 with experiments written in QICK [55],
including resonator and qubit drives, qubit fast-flux
pulses, and simultaneous multiple-cavity readout. DC-
flux offsets for qubits and couplers were controlled with
Qblox D5a voltage sources, combined with a fast-flux line
in the mixing chamber, and sent to the qubit via on-chip
flux lines. The qubits were dispersively read out and
driven through individual quarter-wave resonators induc-
tively coupled to a single transmission line. Resonator
readout tones and qubit drive pulses were combined using
a 6dB directional coupler at room temperature. The out-
put signal was amplified using a traveling-wave paramet-
ric amplifier (TWPA) at 10mK, a high-electron-mobility
transistor (HEMT) amplifier at 4K, and two amplifiers at
room temperature. A Windfreak SynthHDv2 RF source
was used to provide the pump drive for the TWPA. The
full wiring setup can be found in Fig. S1 of the Supple-
mentary Information.
Experimental sequence
For all experiments, DC-flux voltages are set so that
all eight qubit frequencies are near the midpoint of their
respective ranges of tunability. This enabled frequency
tuning across the entire spectrum with solely fast-flux
pulse control. DC-flux voltages for the six couplers are
set to produce the desired coupling strengthJ || when
the qubits are at the lattice resonance frequency. State
initialization, time evolution, and readout are then per-
formed using fast-flux pulses that control the qubit fre-
quencies within 0.3 ns. State preparation entails tuning
the frequencies of qubits 1, 4, 8, and 5 to be evenly spaced
by 50 MHz and driving each of these four qubits to the
excited state. All other qubits are negatively detuned
by 150 MHz for this step. Qubits 1, 4, 8, and 5 are
then quickly tuned to the lattice frequency (ω lattice), and
qubits 2, 3, 6, and 7 are slowly ramped onto the same
resonance frequency over 300 ns. During the measure-
ment step, qubit pairs are tuned onto resonance with each
other, with different resonant frequencies for each pair,
depending on which qubits are designated to undergo
the beamsplitter operation; qubits not involved are far
detuned during the beamsplitter time evolution. Finally,
qubits are detuned by at least 20Jfrom other qubits for
simultaneous single-shot readout of all eight qubits.
Readout for the current correlation and bond kinetic
energy data consists of collecting 100,000 shots of simul-
taneous eight-qubit single-shot measurements. Readout
parameters, chosen to optimize discrimination between
the ground and first excited states, are determined be-
fore every run by collecting 8000 shots of the readout
calibration experiment.
T uning qubits onto resonance
We calibrate the qubit frequencies after the adiabatic
ramp to ensure that all qubits are brought on resonance.
To this end, we extract the frequency of each qubit from
a Ramsey experiment with the drive frequencyω drive =
ωlattice while tuning the fast-flux pulse amplitude. This,
combined with accounting for flux crosstalk, allows us to
fine-tune all qubits to be resonant atω lattice.
Hamiltonian and Lindbladian simulations
All parameters used in the Hamiltonian and Lindbla-
dian simulations of the dynamics are independently mea-
sured. Coupling strengths are measured by extracting
the rate of resonant exchange of a single excitation be-
tween all pairs of qubits.T 1 andT 2R decoherence times

=== PAGE 11 ===
11
are measured atω lattice while all other qubits are far de-
tuned. Anharmonicities are measured by calibrating the
frequency of anω 12 pulse after preparing a qubit in|1⟩.

=== PAGE 12 ===
Supplementary Information for “Chiral and bond-ordered phases in a
triangular-ladder superconducting-qubit quantum simulator”
S1. DEVICE P ARAMETERS
Qubit Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q5 Q6 Q7 Q8
α/2π(MHz) 188 187 184 187 183 186 187 187
ωq,bare,min/2π(MHz) 3524 3516 3473 3517 3512 3513 3448 3512
ωq,bare,max/2π(MHz) 4409 4418 4378 4434 4402 4380 4324 4417
κ/2π(MHz) 0.59 1.05 0.93 1.07 1.06 0.88 0.73 0.87
χ/2π(MHz) 0.53 0.41 1.10 0.56 0.41 0.36 0.68 0.52
ωr/2π(MHz) 7121 7077 7511 7568 7363 7441 7255 7309
(J||/J=−3.5)T1 (µs) 37.5 38.1 33.5 24.5 16.1 19.4 21.4 28.8
(J||/J=−2.0)T1 (µs) 39.3 51.5 39.3 30.5 19.2 32.8 24.5 33.6
(J||/J=−1.0)T1 (µs) 31.1 42.7 26.6 16.9 19.4 23.3 23.2 33.6
(J||/J= +1.0)T 1 (µs) 32.8 45.2 39.5 37.8 15.7 28.5 23.7 24.1
(J||/J= +2.0)T 1 (µs) 25.6 33.9 26.1 28.4 15.6 23.9 21.4 30.0
(J||/J= +3.5)T 1 (µs) 16.5 19.3 15.8 21.0 9.4 14.9 14.7 16.8
(J||/J=−3.5)T2R (µs) 1.47 0.53 1.54 0.42 2.40 2.04 1.37 1.62
(J||/J=−2.0)T2R (µs) 1.77 0.48 2.60 0.51 3.18 2.62 2.21 2.23
(J||/J=−1.0)T2R (µs) 1.04 0.96 0.53 1.00 0.65 0.59 1.48 0.84
(J||/J= +1.0)T 2R (µs) 2.19 0.74 2.60 1.49 2.08 2.52 2.33 1.93
(J||/J= +2.0)T 2R (µs) 3.31 1.07 4.15 1.00 5.12 3.74 5.69 3.50
(J||/J= +3.5)T 2R (µs) 2.09 0.22 3.40 0.27 3.53 2.94 5.45 2.50
TABLE S1. A table of measured device parameters for the 8-qubit triangular ladder.α=ω01−ω12 is the qubit anharmonicity.
ωq,bare,minandωq,bare,maxare the minimum and maximum tunable bare qubit frequencies, respectively.κis the resonator
linewidth and photon loss rate.χis the change in the resonator frequency when the qubit is in its first excited state versus
its ground state.ω r is the resonator frequency when the qubit is in its ground state.ω r varies over a range of 1–2 MHz
depending on qubit frequency due to the dispersive resonator-qubit coupling.T 1 andT 2R are the qubit decay and Ramsey
dephasing times, respectively, between the ground and first excited states, all measured at the resonance point of 3800 MHz
forJ ||/J∈{−3.5,−2.0,−1.0,+1.0}or 4295 MHz forJ||/J∈{+2.0,+3.5}.
S2. WIRING AND SETUP
The wiring and control setup is shown in Fig. S1. For arbitrary pulse generation, pulse scheduling, and signal
digitization, we use the Xilinx RFSoC ZCU216 with experiments written using the QICK library [1]. This setup
enables synthesis of qubit drives, readout probes, and frequency control of qubits and couplers, which we refer to as
“fast flux”. We include bias tees to combine fast-flux lines with DC lines in the mixing chamber; these have been
modified by replacing the capacitor with a short.
S3. FREQUENCY CALIBRA TION
For each of our eight qubits, we measure the frequency by performing two-tone spectroscopy while varying DC
voltage on the corresponding flux-bias line. We fit the flux dependence of the frequency to an asymmetric-junction
tunable-transmon model [2, 3]. In order to model the coupler’s frequency spectrum, we rely on tracking the avoided
crossings between the coupler and its neighboring qubits, as shown in Fig. S3.

=== PAGE 13 ===
2
Qblox SPI rack D5a
1 k/uni03A9
x14
x8 DAC
fast ﬂux qubit drive resonator probe readout
Keysight LO (E8267D)
300K
x2
Windfreak SynthHDv2
50K
-20dB -20dB
4K
1K
100mK
10mK
-10dB
DAC DAC ADC
-15dB
-4dB -20dB
-6dB
SCALINQ
CliQ10 lowpass
infrared ﬁlter
SCALINQ 
CliQ10 lowpass
infrared ﬁlter
Minicircuits
ZFBT -6GW+
bias tee (modiﬁed)
LNF-LNC4-8C
HEMT
Pamtech isolator
Pamtech isolator
TWPA
Quantum Machines
QFilter-II
low-pass ﬁlter
-20dB
TWPA pump rf sourcedc ﬂux bias
ZCU216 RFSoC + intermodulation products PFE
Minicircuits
ZX05-14H-S+
3.7-10 GHz mixer
Minicircuits
TB-994+ amplifer
Minicircuits
TB-994+ amplifer
Minicircuits
VBF-4000-S+
Minicircuits
VBF-3590-S+
x2
Minicircuits
VBF-7331+
x3
Minicircuits
VBF-7331+
Minicircuits
TB-994+ amplifer
Minicircuits
TB-994+ amplifer
Minicircuits
TB-994+ amplifer
Narda-MITEQ
AFS3 amplifer
Minicircuits
VBF-7331+
Minicircuits
VHF-5500+
Minicircuits
VLPX-500
Minicircuits
ZX05-14H-S+
3.7-10 GHz mixer
Minicircuits
ZUDC6-0283-S+
directional coupler
x8 (qubits)
x6 (couplers)
CPL
INOUT
50/uni03A9
CPL
IN
OUT
50/uni03A9
Minicircuits
ZUDC20-0283-S+
directional coupler
Device
Pamtech isolator
-10dB
-10dB
FIG. S1. Control and measurement wiring setup.
After calibrating the qubits and couplers, we measure frequency shifts arising from applied biases on other flux
lines in order to characterize the flux crosstalk matrix [4, 5]. For each qubit, we generate random sets of bias voltages
on the other flux lines and measure the difference in the target qubit’s frequency from the expected frequency based
on the tunable-transmon model. We use least-squares minimization to find a crosstalk matrix that best maps the
randomly generated voltages to the corresponding measured frequency. We update the expected frequency based on
the crosstalk matrix and repeat the process to further increase the precision of the crosstalk model.
The procedure for calibrating crosstalk on the couplers is slightly different but again relies on measuring avoided
crossings with neighboring qubits. We pick the coupler frequency to be at the highest value in its range, which is
identifiable by recognizing the symmetry between its avoided crossings with adjacent qubits. As before, we randomize

=== PAGE 14 ===
3
a b
FIG. S2. Flux crosstalk matrices.(a)DC flux bias crosstalk matrix. The color indicates the relative crosstalk, or the amount
of magnetic flux through a qubit or coupler’s junction loop (row) originating from a different qubit or coupler’s associated flux
bias line (column).(b)Fast-flux crosstalk matrix.
the frequencies of all other qubits (and voltages for all other couplers), and measure the qubit-coupler avoided crossings.
We use least-squares optimization to find the crosstalk matrix that best predicts the shift in the coupler’s avoided
crossing due to the bias voltages on all other flux lines.
To calibrate a crosstalk matrix for the fast-flux channels on the eight qubits, we perform the same procedure but
replace the DC biases with varying-amplitude flat pulses from our RFSoC. In doing so, we obtain both the 14×14
DC crosstalk and the 8×8 fast-flux crosstalk matrices, both shown in Fig. S2.
S4. CALIBRA TION OF COUPLING STRENGTHS
Experimentally, we determine the coupling strengths by measuring the frequency of oscillations between the qubits.
When nearly resonant, two qubits exchange a single excitation at a rate given by
Ω swap = 2
√
J2 + ∆ 2/4,(S1)
whereJis the coupling strength and ∆ is the detuning between the qubits. Thus, we measure particle swaps while
varying the detuning to extract the coupling strength.
While qubits are directly coupled along the rungs of the ladder, the coupling between qubits on the legs can be
modeled as a second-order hopping process mediated by the coupler mode, with an effective coupling given by [6],
geff≈g1g2
ωc−ωq
· 2ω2
q
ωc(ωq +ωc) +g 12.(S2)
Here,g 1 andg 2 are the couplings between the qubits and the couplers,g 12 is the direct coupling between the qubits,
andωc andωq are frequencies of the coupler and (resonant) qubits, respectively, all of which are depicted in Fig. S3a.
It is readily seen from the denominator of the first term that whenω c > ωq,g eff >0 (ignoringg 12 which is small in
our device), and whenωc < ωq,g eff <0. Therefore, the sign ofg eff is selected by whether the coupler frequency is
above or below the qubit frequencies.
A consequence of the strong qubit-coupler couplings is a noticeable difference between the bare and dressed fre-
quencies of the full 8-qubit and 6-coupler system. Therefore, when mapping qubit bias fluxes to frequencies, we
account for frequency dressing by diagonalizing the subsystem consisting of a qubit and its neighboring couplers.
While determining the bias fluxes needed to tune all qubits into resonance, we minimize the effects of such dressing by
performing Ramsey experiments to measure individual qubit frequencies. In this procedure, we drive theπ/2 pulses
of the Ramsey sequence at the target lattice frequency. The optimal flux-pulse amplitude is then identified as the
point where the qubit-drive detuning is minimized, which is indicated by the suppression of Ramsey fringes.

=== PAGE 15 ===
4
a b c
FIG. S3. Tunable leg couplings.(a)The qubit-coupler-qubit subsystem used to model the effective coupling strengths between
qubits.(b)The magnitude of the effective coupling strength|g eff|as a function of the coupler frequencyωc when the qubit
frequency is set toωq = 3800 MHz (dashed vertical line). Blue markers indicate the measured effective coupling strengths for
various coupler frequencies. The dark blue curve plots the expression in Eq. (S2) usingg 12 as free fit parameter. Values forg 1
andg 2 were acquired from the values of the energy gap measured at avoided crossings of the qubit and coupler modes.(c)We
find the frequency spectrum of the couplers by performing two-tone spectroscopy on the hybridized qubit-coupler states near
avoided crossings between a coupler and its two neighboring qubits, utilizing the qubit’s readout hardware. The dark blue line
is the fit to the bare coupler spectrum, and the light red lines are fits to the hybrid qubit-coupler eigenstates.
S5. FLUX PULSE DISTOR TION
We characterize the fast-flux pulses by measuring the qubit frequency at various time points in order to compensate
for distortions from the ideal step pulse. We fit the frequency to a step pulse multiplied by an envelope containing
three exponentially decaying functions [7, 8]:
f(t) = 1 +A 1 exp(−t/τ1) +A 2 exp(−t/τ2) cos(ω2t+ϕ2) +A 3 exp(−t/τ3).(S3)
We perform aZ-transform to find the analytic infinite-impulse response (IIR) filter of this function, and we apply the
inverted filter to all waveforms sent through the corresponding DAC. The results in Fig. S4 demonstrate the difference
in distortion with no calibration and after three iterations of calibrating the filter function.
FIG. S4. Qubit frequency over time, acquired via two-tone spectroscopy, immediately after a flat step pulse is sent through the
fast-flux line. Light blue shows the behavior before applying pulse predistortion, and dark blue shows the behavior after.

=== PAGE 16 ===
5
S6. TIMING CALIBRA TION FOR BEAMSPLITTER MEASUREMENTS
To perform the beamsplitter measurement, we detune the lattice into resonant qubit pairs separated from all other
qubits by more than 20J. Measuring both the real and imaginary parts of⟨a †
iaj⟩requires precise control over the
phase between the two qubits. No phase difference corresponds to a measurement of the current, while a phase
difference ofπ/2 corresponds to a measurement of the bond kinetic energy. To this end, we add an intermediate
step between the ramp and the beamsplitter interaction where the two qubits idle with some frequency difference, as
shown in Fig S5a. Tuning the idle durationt idle and frequency difference allows measurement of⟨a†
iaj⟩at arbitrary
complex phase.
We begin by characterizing the relative arrival times of fast-flux pulses applied to different qubits, in order to apply
detuning step pulses simultaneously. Following the procedure in Ref. [5], we send a qubit drive pulse with some delay
relative to a fast-flux pulse on the same qubit. When the pulses are aligned, the qubit frequency is resonant with
the drive and we measure a high excited-state population. Otherwise, the qubit frequency is off-resonant from the
drive and no signal is measured. Figure S5b reveals a maximum excited-state population of qubit 1 for a delay of
around 80 ns. We repeat this experiment for all qubits to determine the relative delays required for simultaneous
qubit fast-flux pulses.
With the pulse delays calibrated, we tune the ideal duration and frequency difference to determine the phase
difference. Figure S5c shows the population difference between the two qubits after preparing the state|10⟩+|01⟩,
applying the phase offset by idling, and measuring the beamsplitter population swaps. As we varyt idle on they-axis,
we notice periodic patterns of high-contrast or no-contrast population swaps. No-contrast traces correspond to a
total phase ofnπfor integern(since|10⟩±|01⟩is invariant under the swap Hamiltonian), and high-contrast traces
correspond to a phase of (n+ 1
2)π(when the state rotates into|10⟩±i|01⟩). This calibration also absorbs residual
phase offsets from asynchronous fast-flux pulses arising due to the finite waveform timing resolution (290 ps). After
selecting thet idle that minimizes swap contrast (for current measurement) or maximizes swap contrast (for bond
kinetic energy), we perform another round of calibrations to fine-tune the frequency difference during idling since
finer resolution is accessible in the fast-flux amplitude than in the waveform time delay.
Finally, after calibrating the idle duration and frequency difference, we fit the population swap trace to a sinusoid
to extract the time that corresponds to a phase ofπ/2, representing the rotation on the Bloch sphere from the current
(ˆy) axis to the measurement (ˆz) axis. Since the current measurement is calibrated to have minimal contrast of the two-
qubit swaps, we instead ramp the two qubits to a slightly off-resonant point to prepare the stateα|10⟩+
√
1−α2|10⟩
for someα≈0.5, thus increasing population swap contrast. The bond kinetic energy measurement is calibrated to
have maximum contrast, so we can directly fit a sinusoid to the population swaps of the resonantly ramped state
|10⟩+|01⟩.
a b c
FIG. S5. Beamsplitter timing calibration.(a)The experimental sequence to fine-tune the acquired phaseθbetween the two
qubits involved in the beamsplitter interaction. Witht idle and the frequency difference as control knobs,θcan be arbitrarily
tuned, thus implementing any linear combination of effectiveσ x andσy measurements.(b)Calibration of the delay of the
arrival of a fast-flux pulse relative to a qubit drive pulse on a qubit. Thex-axis indicates the scheduled time delay between the
fast-flux pulse and the qubit drive. The peak of the curve indicates the optimal delay to align the two pulses in time.(c)A
plot of the population difference between the two qubits showing resonant qubit swaps witht swap swept on thex-axis andt idle
swept on they-axis. Tuningt idle changes the phase accumulated between the qubits, thus changing the contrast of resonant
swaps.

=== PAGE 17 ===
6
S7. BEAMSPLITTER MEASUREMENT
Following evolution under a double-well HamiltonianH=ℏJ(a †
lar +a †
ral), the particle number difference of two
coupled resonant harmonic oscillators can be expressed as [9, 10]
nr(t)−nl (t) = cos(2Jt)
[
nr(0)−nl (0)
]
+ i sin(2Jt)
[
a†
l (0)ar(0)−a†
r(0)al (0)
]
.(S4)
Given an evolution timet BS =π/4J, a measurement of the occupation difference translates to a measurement of the
current operator on the initial state:
nr(tBS)−nl (tBS) =J l→r (0)/J.(S5)
This measurement protocol detects currents in the two-qubit subspace{|00⟩,|01⟩,|10⟩,|11⟩}, with|01⟩and|10⟩
corresponding to currents of +Jand−J, and with|00⟩and|11⟩both corresponding to zero current. While, in principle,
there exist additional currents corresponding to higher bosonic modes of the transmon, with our device parameters
forU,J ∥, andJ, we expect a significant portion of the current to be restricted to the two-qubit computational basis
above. Figure S7 highlights the discrepancy between measuring the current operator directly or through the mapping
to particle number imbalance.
S8. TLS SPECTROSCOPY
FIG. S6. TLS spectroscopy of the qubit mode. Excited-state population of the qubit measured after a fixed delay as a function
of qubit frequency. Narrow dips in the population indicate enhanced relaxation at frequencies where the qubit hybridizes with
strongly coupled environmental two-level systems (TLSs).
As part of the process for calibrating the adiabatic ramp, we find the qubitT 1 lifetimes depend sensitively on
frequency-dependent environmental effects. We attribute lower lifetimes to the presence of lossy two-level systems
(TLSs) coupled to the qubit mode [11, 12]. Strongly-coupled TLSs appear as sharp dips inT 1 at qubit frequencies
near the TLS frequency. We characterize the frequency landscape by measuring qubit populations after a short delay
at various frequency points. Frequencies for which the qubit interacts with a TLS exhibit faster population decay than
is expected from the baselineT 1 lifetime. For consistency, we employ fast-flux pulses to tune the qubit initialization
and readout frequencies to be the same throughout the experiment.
A trace of the qubit population versus frequency is shown in Fig. S6. For each qubit, we choose the frequencies for
driving, adiabatic ramps, beamsplitter operations, and readout that minimize population decay from TLSs. Further-
more, we design the adiabatic ramp to tune the frequency of only the sites without excitations, in order to reduce the
range in frequency space in which the qubit might interact with lossy environmental modes.
S9. ST A TE PREP ARA TION AND ADIABA TIC RAMP
Our state-preparation scheme involves tuning the frequencies of all qubits onto resonance (ωlattice). To prepare the
highest half-filling eigenstate, we excite the four highest-frequency qubits to|1⟩while they are detuned by more than

=== PAGE 18 ===
7
JandJ ∥. We pick qubits 1, 4, 5, and 8 as the excited qubits to minimize effects ofZZcrosstalk and level crossings
with|2⟩states. We diabatically tune the four excited qubits toωlattice and simultaneously tune the four unoccupied
sites toωlattice−25J. This state remains the highest-energy eigenstate, since the occupied and unoccupied sites
have a separation much larger thanJandJ ∥. Slowly ramping the resonance frequency of the four unoccupied sites
adiabatically prepares the highest excited state of the Hamiltonian with negativeU, and thus effectively prepares the
half-filling ground state of the Hamiltonian with positiveUandπ-shifted plaquette fluxes as seen in Eq. (2) of the
main text. This state-preparation procedure avoids tuning the frequencies of the excited qubits to suppress particle
loss through level crossings with environmental decay channels (see Sec. S8 for more details).
We find that the energy levels, throughout the adiabatic ramp, depend sensitively on which qubits are excited. We
confirm through exact diagonalization and simulations of adiabatic ramps that the state with particles on sites 1, 4,
5, and 8 remains sufficiently gapped throughout the adiabatic evolution. We choose a ramp time of 290 ns, balancing
the requirement for adiabatic evolution set by the energy-level gaps against the finiteT 2 coherence times.
S10. READOUT
We determine the state of each qubit using the qubit-state-dependent dispersive shift of its readout resonator’s
frequency [2], performing heterodyne detection to measure the amplitude and phase of our probe signal as it passes
through the transmission line on our device. We calibrate single-shot readout before each experimental run by
performing 8000 experiments measuring the averaged in-phase (I) and quadrature (Q) signals when the qubit is in
the ground state and another 8000 when the qubit is in the first excited state. We then pick a discriminator line in
theI-Qplane that maximizes the correct assignment of prepared ground- and excited-state points to the measured
ground (|0⟩) and excited (|1⟩) states.
Single-shot readout fidelities for all qubits typically exceed 90% if the qubit frequencies are at maximal detuning
from coupler frequencies (∆ qc ≈3 GHz). On the other hand, we notice that as detunings decrease, single-shot
discrimination fidelity worsens, likely due to increased qubit-coupler hybridization and worse couplerT 1 times. For
coupler-qubit configurations used in our experiments, single-shot readout fidelities are generally between 70% and
90%.
Current correlation measurements require simultaneous readout of four qubits, which is done by multiplexing
readout tones at the frequencies of each corresponding resonator. To improve the fidelity of our data, we postselect
by retaining only experiments in which exactly four excitations are measured across the lattice, correcting out decay
errors. Therefore, we read out all eight qubits on our lattice simultaneously.
S11. NUMERICAL SIMULA TIONS OF THE TRIANGULAR LADDER
We perform simulations of state preparation and beamsplitter operation by modeling our system according to the
Hamiltonian in Eq. (1) of the main text. All simulations in this work use the QuTiP package [13]. We restrict the
Hilbert space to include only states with exactly four particles on the eight sites and obtain eigenstates with exact
diagonalization. We use measured values for the coupling strengthsJ ∥ andJand for the interaction strengthU <0.
Following the transformation in Eq. (2) of the main text, we obtain the eigenstate with the highest energy, which
corresponds to the ground state of the Hamiltonian with positiveUandπ-shifted plaquette fluxes. Since the adiabatic
ramp duration is itself a non-negligible fraction of the lowestT 2 lifetimes, we also simulate an adiabatic ramp with
dephasing to compare the prepared state to the exact eigenstate. We simulate the dynamics during the ramp using
the Lindblad master equation
˙ρ= i[H,ρ] +
N∑
j
γj
(
LjρL†
j + 1
2{LjL†
j,ρ}
)
(S6)
with
Lj =
√
2a†
jaj (S7)
as the collapse operator corresponding to qubit dephasing andγj the dephasing rate.
After thus obtaining the state prepared during the ramp, we extract both the expectation value of the current as
well as the population difference during the beamsplitter interaction. We incorporate the exact detunings and onsite
interaction strengths of qubits to match our experimental procedure as best as possible, finding that these factors
reduce the measured current correlations from their ideal values.

=== PAGE 19 ===
8
a b c
FIG. S7.(a)Comparison of experimentally measured current-current correlations as a function of rung separation with
numerical simulations. Red circles denote experimental data. Dark blue triangles show⟨JiJj⟩in the ground state computed
using exact diagonalization. Light blue squares represent the expected population-difference correlations obtained by simulating
the beamsplitter measurement applied to the exact ground state. Points are offset along thex-axis for visibility.(b)Same
comparison as in (a), but incorporating dephasing during state preparation. Current operator and beamsplitter measurement
expectation values are calculated with the simulated mixed state after the adiabatic ramp.(c)Chiral-current order parameterC
as a function of the rung-to-leg coupling ratioJ ∥/J. Direct operator simulation of the exact ground state, as well as simulation
of the beamsplitter measurement with and without dephasing are shown for comparison.
While simulating unitary time evolution on the state in the four-particle subspace is straightforward, the post-ramp
state is generally a mixed state which requires Lindbladian dynamics. To greatly simplify the simulations, we can
recognize that pairs of qubits are well separated in frequency during the beamsplitter interaction, so we can use the
reduced density matrix of each pair in simulating the population difference measurement. Assuming there are no
more than four particles in total, we truncate the two-qubit bosonic space to states with at most four particles per
site.
Figures S7 and S8 compare the measured current–current correlations and bond kinetic energies with numerical
simulations. In each case, we show both the correlations obtained from direct operator expectation values and
those inferred from a simulation of the beamsplitter measurement protocol. We find that the agreement between
experiment and simulation improves when dephasing during state preparation is included in the model. Nevertheless,
the simulations still overestimate the measured signal amplitudes, indicating that the model does not capture all
relevant decoherence mechanisms. Incorporating additional dissipative processes, beyond simple dephasing, may
therefore provide a more accurate description of the experimental dynamics.
a b c
FIG. S8.(a)Comparison of experimentally measured bond kinetic energies with numerical simulations. Red circles denote
experimental data. Dark blue triangles show⟨Oj⟩in the ground state computed using exact diagonalization. Light blue squares
represent the expected population difference obtained by simulating the beamsplitter measurement applied to the exact ground
state. Points are offset along thex-axis for visibility.(b)Same comparison as in (a), now including dephasing during state
preparation. Red circles again represent the experimental data. Dark blue triangles denote bond kinetic energies extracted
directly from the simulated mixed state after state preparation, while light blue squares show those obtained after simulating
the beamsplitter measurement.(c)The bond order parameterO BO as a function of the rung-to-leg coupling ratioJ ∥/J.
Direct operator simulation of the exact ground state, as well as simulation of the beamsplitter measurement with and without
dephasing are shown for comparison.

=== PAGE 20 ===
9
ADDITIONAL DA T A ON CURRENT CORRELA TIONS
FIG. S9. Beamsplitter measurement for current-current correlations atJ ∥/J=−2.(a)Traces of measured rung-rung number
difference correlations over time, during evolution underH BS, for all pairs of rungs. Axes represent the same rungs as in the
correlation matrices in Fig. 3b,c of the main text. The red dashed line indicatest BS, when the population-difference correlations
correspond to current-current correlations.(b)Simulated beamsplitter measurements of current-current correlations.

=== PAGE 21 ===
10
ADDITIONAL DA T A ON THE BOND ORDER P ARAMETER
FIG. S10. Beamsplitter measurement for bond kinetic energy atJ ∥/J= 1. Time traces of particle-number differences are
plotted against evolution time underH BS. Plots correspond to the rungs in Fig. 4d,e of the main text. The two qubits of each
rung acquire a relative phase ofπ/2 to enable the kinetic energy measurement. The red dashed line indicatest BS, when the
population difference corresponds to the bond kinetic energy.
[1] L. Stefanazzi, K. Treptow, N. Wilcer, C. Stoughton, C. Bradford, S. Uemura, S. Zorzetti, S. Montella, G. Cancelo,
S. Sussman, A. Houck, S. Saxena, H. Arnaldi, A. Agrawal, H. Zhang, C. Ding, and D. I. Schuster, The QICK (Quantum
Instrumentation Control Kit): Readout and control for qubits and detectors, Rev. Sci. Instrum.93, 044709 (2022).
[2] P. Krantz, M. Kjaergaard, F. Yan, T. P. Orlando, S. Gustavsson, and W. D. Oliver, A quantum engineer’s guide to
superconducting qubits, Appl. Phys. Rev.6, 021318 (2019).
[3] J. Koch, T. M. Yu, J. Gambetta, A. A. Houck, D. I. Schuster, J. Majer, A. Blais, M. H. Devoret, S. M. Girvin, and R. J.
Schoelkopf, Charge-insensitive qubit design derived from the Cooper pair box, Phys. Rev. A76, 042319 (2007).
[4] J. G. Martinez, C. S. Chiu, B. M. Smitham, and A. A. Houck, Flat-band localization and interaction-induced delocalization
of photons, Sci. Adv.9, eadj7195 (2023).
[5] A. H. Karamlou, I. T. Rosen, S. E. Muschinske, C. N. Barrett, A. Di Paolo, L. Ding, P. M. Harrington, M. Hays, R. Das,
D. K. Kim, B. M. Niedzielski, M. Schuldt, K. Serniak, M. E. Schwartz, J. L. Yoder, S. Gustavsson, Y. Yanay, J. A. Grover,
and W. D. Oliver, Probing entanglement in a 2D hard-core Bose–Hubbard lattice, Nature629, 561–566 (2024).
[6] F. Yan, P. Krantz, Y. Sung, M. Kjaergaard, D. L. Campbell, T. P. Orlando, S. Gustavsson, and W. D. Oliver, Tunable
coupling scheme for implementing high-fidelity two-qubit gates, Phys. Rev. Appl.10, 054062 (2018).
[7] C. Ding, M. Di Federico, M. Hatridge, A. Houck, S. Leger, J. Martinez, C. Miao, D. S. I, L. Stefanazzi, C. Stoughton,
S. Sussman, K. Treptow, S. Uemura, N. Wilcer, H. Zhang, C. Zhou, and G. Cancelo, Experimental advances with the
QICK (Quantum Instrumentation Control Kit) for superconducting quantum hardware, Phys. Rev. Res.6, 013305 (2024).
[8] R. Ma, B. Saxberg, C. Owens, and et al., A dissipatively stabilized Mott insulator of photons, Nature566, 51 (2019).
[9] B. Du, R. Suresh, S. L´ opez, J. Cadiente, and R. Ma, Probing site-resolved current in strongly interacting superconducting
circuit lattices, Phys. Rev. Lett.133, 060601 (2024).
[10] S. Keßler and F. Marquardt, Single-site-resolved measurement of the current statistics in optical lattices, Phys. Rev. A89,
061601 (2014).
[11] C. M¨ uller, J. H. Cole, and J. Lisenfeld, Towards understanding two-level-systems in amorphous solids: insights from
quantum circuits, Rep. Prog. Phys.82, 124501 (2019).
[12] P. V. Klimov, J. Kelly, Z. Chen, M. Neeley, A. Megrant, B. Burkett, R. Barends, K. Arya, B. Chiaro, Y. Chen,
A. Dunsworth, A. Fowler, B. Foxen, C. Gidney, M. Giustina, R. Graff, T. Huang, E. Jeffrey, E. Lucero, J. Y. Mutus,
O. Naaman, C. Neill, C. Quintana, P. Roushan, D. Sank, A. Vainsencher, J. Wenner, T. C. White, S. Boixo, R. Babbush,
V. N. Smelyanskiy, H. Neven, and J. M. Martinis, Fluctuations of energy-relaxation times in superconducting qubits, Phys.
Rev. Lett.121, 090502 (2018).
[13] J. Johansson, P. Nation, and F. Nori, QuTiP: An open-source Python framework for the dynamics of open quantum
systems, Comput. Phys. Commun.183, 1760–1772 (2012).

